# DH160 Final Project Proposal

Reddit is a platform with a wide variety of subreddits, each focused on a specific topic. One of the largest humor-based subreddits is r/HistoryMemes. This subreddit is devoted to posting jokes and memes about history and historical events. As a meme-based forum, humor is the dominant tone and style of comments and posts. However, the subject matter lends itself to more serious discussions on historical records and politics. User views are revealed through the language in their posts and comments. One would expect that an online forum, with potential contributors ostensibly coming from a wide range of backgrounds, would have a similarly broad spectrum of worldviews or political opinions. Anecdotally, however, this hypothesis is not well supported. Instead, there is evidence that a common perspective is created and perpetuated through participation in the subreddit.
 
This project will attempt to describe the key elements of the shared culture of the subreddit. Following the discovery of these points, I will identify the many ways in which the culture is created and perpetuated through the analysis of several posts and comments. Another avenue of exploration will be to look at the biases of comments. There are two main types of comments: jokes or memes and more serious historical discussion. Jokes and memes are worth analyzing, but the more formal historical debates are of more interest to this project. I will try to construct an image of the average r/HistoryMemes user to get a better understanding of the factors that contribute to the shared historical and political narrative of the subreddit.
 
To achieve these research goals, I will use several computational techniques to analyze the data given in CSV file format. Topic modeling will be used to get an understanding of the most popular post topics in the subreddit. From that point, I can use TF-IDF to get a more accurate list of the most distinctive words. Hopefully this will lead to groups of posts that go between the topic groups. These posts would likely be the most influential in creating the shared worldview among users. Furthermore, the words would indicate what kind of worldview is being created in the subreddit. For the more formal comments, I would like to use word embeddings to find language biases, particularly toward certain countries or cultures. Finally I plan on doing a network analysis of the redditors with the most upvoted comments. The network would provide the context of exactly who is the most responsible for the development of the culture of r/HistoryMemes.
 
 The computational techniques mentioned above are mainly for data refining purposes. The distant reading of the subreddit is meant to curate data using zoom-in sampling around specific topics. The topics that I am interested in include culture/country-specific topics such as French military history and more global topics like the influence of the United States. I will combine this data with top sampling based on upvotes to get the most influential posts and comments. However, the real analysis will be conducted using close reading by looking for posts and comments that extend the influence of the worldview that was summarized through distant reading.
